Taylor Swift Endorses Harris for President
Singer Taylor Swift endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris in the race for U.S. president on Sept. 10, shortly after the latter wrapped up her first presidential debate with former President Donald Trump.

“I will be casting my vote for Kamala Harris and Tim Walz in the 2024 Presidential Election,” Swift wrote in a post on the social media platform Instagram, where she has more than 283 million followers.
The 34-year-old singer said she’s voting for Harris because “she fights for the rights and causes I believe need a warrior to champion them.”
“I think she is a steady-handed, gifted leader and I believe we can accomplish so much more in this country if we are led by calm and not chaos,” Swift wrote.

Swift went on to say that she was “heartened and impressed” by Harris’s selection of Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz as her running mate.

“I’ve done my research, and I’ve made my choice,” the Grammy-winning singer write. “Your research is all yours to do, and the choice is yours to make.”
In a photo shared alongside the post, Swift could be seen holding a cat.

The singer signed off her post with the words “Childless Cat Lady,” which appeared to reference comments made by Trump’s running mate, Sen. JD Vance (R-Ohio), in 2021 when he was campaigning for an Ohio Senate seat.

During an interview with then-Fox News host Tucker Carlson at the time, Vance said the country was being run by “a bunch of childless cat ladies who are miserable at their own lives and the choices that they’ve made, and so they want to make the rest of the country miserable, too.”
Vance has since said his comments were sarcastic, telling SiriusXM’s “The Megyn Kelly Show” in July that he was trying to make the point that “having children—becoming a father, becoming a mother—I really do think it changes your perspective in a pretty profound way.”
Walz ‘Incredibly Grateful’
Speaking to MSNBC after the debate, Walz said he was “incredibly grateful” for Swift’s endorsement.
“I say that as a cat owner, a fellow cat owner,” Walz said. “That was eloquent, and that was clear. And that’s the type of courage we need in America to stand up.”

Swift endorsed President Joe Biden in the 2020 election and allowed the Biden–Harris campaign to use her song “Only the Young” in an advertisement that year.
In her post, Swift said she was publicly endorsing Harris after recently being made aware that an Artificial Intelligence-generated fake of her allegedly endorsing Trump had been posted to his website.

“It really conjured up my fears around AI, and the dangers of spreading misinformation,” she said. “It brought me to the conclusion that I need to be very transparent about my actual plans for this election as a voter.
“The simplest way to combat misinformation is with the truth. I will be casting my vote for Kamala Harris and Tim Walz in the 2024 Presidential Election,” Swift concluded.
