Taylor Swift endorses Kamala Harris minutes after presidential debate: ‘I’ve made my choice’
She won’t shake this off.

Taylor Swift on Tuesday said she is voting for Vice President Kamala Harris, shocking very few who have followed her political leanings in the past.

“I’m voting for @kamalaharris because she fights for the rights and causes I believe need a warrior to champion them,” she said in a post to Instagram.

Swift, 34, went on to laud the VP for being “a steady-handed, gifted leader and I believe we can accomplish so much more in this country if we are led by calm and not chaos.”
Fresh off the European leg of her Eras Tour, the pop star said she has done her “research” for her pick and urged Swifties to do the same.

The “Cruel Summer” singer said she was inspired to come forward with her choice for 2024 after artificial intelligence was used to create a fraudulent image of her supporting the Republican candidate.

“It brought me to the conclusion that I need to be very transparent about my actual plans for this election as a voter. The simplest way to combat misinformation is the truth.”

Though she explained why she will be voting for Harris, she did not directly tell Swifties to support the vice president. Instead, the pop star said she has done her “research” for her pick and urged her fans to do the same.
“If you haven’t already, now is a great time to do your research on the issues at hand and the stances these candidates take on the topics that matter to you the most,” she said.

“As a voter, I make sure to watch and read everything I can about their proposed policies and plans for this country.”

The four-paragraph caption appeared to have been previously pinned and pre-planned to post. Her words were posted to the caption of an Instagram photo, which featured the artist and her cat, Benjamin Button, from her Time Person of the Year spread in December.

The picture selection is believed to have been an allusion to the liberal backlash to a 2021 quote by Republican vice presidential candidate Sen. JD Vance, in which he referred to Democratic women as “childless cat ladies who are miserable at their own lives.”
In the early years of her nearly two-decade career, Swift kept her politics to herself. However, she decided to come forward with her views in 2018, when she came out against Marsha Blackburn’s ultimately successful run to represent Swift’s home state of Tennessee in the US Senate.

Her decision to come out of the political closet was documented in her 2020 film, “Miss Americana.”

“She votes against the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, which is just basically protecting us from domestic abuse and stalking. She thinks that if you’re a gay couple, or even if you look like a gay couple, you should be allowed to be kicked out of a restaurant,” she said of Blackburn in the documentary. “It’s really basic human rights, and it’s right and wrong at this point, and I can’t see another commercial and see her disguising these policies behind the words ‘Tennessee Christian values.’” 
