Taylor Swift endorses Harris with ‘childless cat lady’ swipe
Taylor Swift endorsed Kamala Harris in a post to Instagram shortly after the debate between the vice president and former President Donald Trump ended Tuesday night.

“I will be casting my vote for Kamala Harris and Tim Walz in the 2024 Presidential Election. I’m voting for [Kamala Harris] because she fights for the rights and causes I believe need a warrior to champion them,” Swift wrote in her post, complete with a photo of her cat. “I think she is a steady-handed, gifted leader and I believe we can accomplish so much more in this country if we are led by calm and not chaos.”

Swift noted in her post to her 283 million followers that she was aware of artificial intelligence posts “falsely endorsing” Trump and said the best way to combat the “dangers of spreading misinformation” was to issue her endorsement of Harris.

Gov. Tim Walz (D-MN) praised Swift’s endorsement of Harris after host Rachel Maddow read him the post on MSNBC after the debate. He encouraged Swift’s fans, known as “Swifties,” to go to Harris’s website and learn about the candidate and how they can help with the campaign.

“I’m incredibly grateful, first of all, to Taylor Swift,” Walz said. “I say that as a cat owner, a fellow cat owner. That was eloquent and that was clear. And that’s the type of courage we need in America to stand up.”

She signed off her message as a “childless cat lady,” a knock at comments from Sen. J.D. Vance (R-OH) regarding comments he made in 2021 that resurfaced following his selection as Trump’s running mate about “childless cat ladies” who are “miserable at their own lives and the choices that they’ve made, and so they wanna make the rest of the country miserable, too.”

The comments have spurred a boost in fundraising for Harris, as well as Zoom calls called “Cat and Dog Ladies Unite for Kamala Harris” in the weeks following her selection as the presumptive Democratic nominee.

Swift had kept silent on her political stance throughout the 2024 election, with campaign officials for President Joe Biden, when he was a candidate, coveting her endorsement as a way to attract young and female voters. She endorsed Biden in 2020.

The megastar, who has sold out arenas around the world and the United States during her “Eras Tour,” has a recent history of political involvement after remaining out of the spotlight on divisive topics that can determine elections. She stayed out of political conversations until 2018 when she posted a March for Our Lives post and condemned the rise in school shootings and gun violence in the U.S.
Swift made a major political statement on June 17, 2019, with the release of her music video “You Need To Calm Down,” featuring several prominent LGBT figures and celebrities such as Ellen DeGeneres, Hayley Kiyoko, Todrick Hall, Adam Lambert, and more.

A segment of Swift’s Miss Americana Netflix documentary from 2020 has gained attention in recent days, particularly as she has been spotted with Brittany Mahomes. Mahomes, wife of Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes, generated controversy when she appeared to like a Trump Instagram post.

Swift expressed her regret about staying out of national politics in 2016 and how it motivated her to speak up about her bad blood with Trump and Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) in 2020.

“I can’t see another commercial [with] her disguising these policies behind the words ‘Tennessee Christian values,’” the singer said in the film, referring to Blackburn, who she called a “flagrant enemy of feminism and gay rights” in a Variety issue. “I live in Tennessee. I am Christian. That’s not what we stand for.”
