Trump names campaign spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt as White House press secretary
President-elect Donald Trump on Friday selected campaign spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt to serve as his White House press secretary.

Leavitt, 27, was the Trump campaign’s national press secretary and previously served in the 45th president’s White House as assistant press secretary.
She will become the youngest person ever to hold the title.
“Karoline Leavitt did a phenomenal job as the National Press Secretary on my Historic Campaign, and I am pleased to announce she will serve as White House Press Secretary,” Trump said in his announcement. 
"Karoline is smart, tough, and has proven to be a highly effective communicator,” he added. “I have the utmost confidence she will excel at the podium, and help deliver our message to the American People as we, Make America Great Again.” 
During the 2022 midterm elections, Leavitt ran for Congress in New Hampshire’s 1st Congressional District. 

She won her contested Republican primary race but lost in the general election to Rep. Chris Pappas (D-NH)

Leavitt also worked as a spokeswoman for Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) — Trump’s pick to serve as ambassador to the United Nations.

Leavitt will become the fifth White House press secretary to serve under Trump. 

Sean Spicer, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Stephanie Grisham and Kayleigh McEnany all held the highly visible White House post during the president-elect’s first term. 
At age 29, the late Ron Ziegler, who served as White House press secretary under former President Richard Nixon, was previously the youngest person to serve in the role. 
Earlier in the day, Trump announced that his longtime communications guru Steven Cheung would return to the White House with him as director of communications.

He also announced Sergio Gor — CEO of Don Jr.’s Winning Team Publishing company — will step in as director of the Presidential Personnel Office.
“Steven Cheung and Sergio Gor have been trusted Advisors since my first Presidential Campaign in 2016 and have continued to champion America First principles throughout my First Term, all the way through our Historic Victory in 2024,” Trump said in a statement.

