Trump names Karoline Leavitt as White House press secretary
President-elect Donald Trump announced Friday that Karoline Leavitt would become White House press secretary. She served in the same role on the 2024 campaign and also worked in the White House communications office during the first Trump administration. Separately Friday, House Speaker Mike Johnson (R-Louisiana) said he would “strongly request” that the House Ethics Committee not release a report on its investigation into allegations that former congressman Matt Gaetz (R-Florida) might have engaged in sexual misconduct and illegal drug use and accepted improper gifts. Trump has announced he will nominate Gaetz as attorney general.
President-elect Donald Trump on Friday named Karoline Leavitt to be White House press secretary — a Trumpworld Gen-Z firebrand who spent much of the 2024 race as the public-facing spokesperson for his campaign.

“Karoline Leavitt did a phenomenal job as the National Press Secretary on my Historic Campaign, and I am pleased to announce she will serve as White House Press Secretary,” Trump said in a statement Friday evening. “Karoline is smart, tough, and has proven to be a highly effective communicator. I have the utmost confidence she will excel at the podium, and help deliver our message to the American People as we, Make America Great Again.”

Leavitt, 27, will be the youngest White House press secretary in history, taking the distinction from Nixon White House press secretary Ronald Ziegler, who was appointed to the role at 29.

Leavitt, who continued as a presidential transition spokesperson, previously served as assistant press secretary during Trump’s first term in the White House. In 2022, at the age of 25, she launched a bid for Congress in New Hampshire but lost to Rep. Chris Pappas (D).

Trump announced another key appointment to the White House press shop earlier Friday, tapping Steven Cheung, a top communications adviser on his campaign, to serve as White House communications director. The role is typically more behind-the-scenes, overseeing the White House communications and press offices.