Trump works fry cooker at McDonald’s — and MAGA faithful line up to order: ‘I’ll take whatever he gives me’


Wearing a red tie and an apron, the former president served up some fries and political shade against his rival during a behind-the-counter stint at McDonald’s on Sunday, which drew a monster crowd to the Feasterville-Trevose fast food restaurant.
McDonald’s has long been one of Trump’s favorite chains, but his visit to the Golden Arches on Sunday doubled as an effort to reiterate his doubts over Vice President Kamala Harris’ claims that she worked there in the 1980s.
“I’ll tell you what. It’s a great franchise. It’s a great company … look at the crowd over there. Look at how happy everyone is. They’re happy because they want hope,” the commander-in-beef told reporters from the drive-through window.
“I’ve now worked for 15 minutes more than Kamala.”
In what his campaign dubbed the “October surp-fries,” McDonald Trump worked the counter and bantered with customers who drove up. His campaign also released footage of him jubilantly preparing Happy Meals. 
It was clear they were lovin’ it.
“We got the salt on it. Never touches the human hand. Nice and full,” Trump said while filling a container of fries — a nod to his germophobic tendencies. 
Well over a thousand MAGA-Donald’s faithful lined Street Road in Lower Southampton Township in an effort to meet Trump and say “Hail to the chef” at the McDonald’s in critical Bucks County, outside Philadelphia.
“I’ll just take whatever he gives me,” one man told The Post.
“Love him or hate him, I just feel it’s really cool to see this moment in history,” Caitlin Hanlon, 33, a hairdresser from Feasterville who was wearing a pink MAGA hat, told The Post. “It’s a really cool moment, but I obviously support him.”
“Mr. President, thank you for taking a bullet for us,” an excited supporter said after Trump handed two bags of food into her SUV. 
“Wow, thank you, Mr. President,” her husband said. “You made it possible for ordinary people like us to meet you.”
Trump seemed to enjoy the McFlurry of activity and quipped, “I like this job.” He said he would be eager to come back and do it again. 
He also handed out fries to members of the press stationed outside the drive-through window. “That’s sort of a bribe. But a fry for a buck is okay,” he joked. “Somebody come up here and take them.”
Harris, 60, has repeatedly maintained that she worked at the fast food joint while studying for undergrad and used the tale to highlight her middle-class roots, seeking to juxtapose it with her billionaire foe.
Her campaign has specified that she worked the cash register, fry station and ice cream machine at a McDonald’s on Central Avenue in Alameda, California, in 1983, during the summer between her freshman and sophomore years at Howard University.
“Part of the reason I even talk about having worked at McDonald’s is because there are people who work at McDonald’s in our country who are trying to raise a family,” Harris told MSNBC’s Stephanie Ruhle last month. “I worked there as a student.” 
“I think part of the difference between me and my opponent includes our perspective on the needs of the American people and what our responsibility, then, is to meet those needs.”
Trump and his allies have harped on how her 1987 resume made no mention of her purported stint at McDonald’s as well as the overall lack of proof that she did. Her campaign has shot back, accusing him of making a baseless allegation.
Sunday was Harris’ 60th birthday, something that Trump was told by the press during a brief gaggle. 
“Happy birthday, Kamala! She’s turning 60. I think I’ll get her some flowers. Maybe I’ll get her some fries … I’ll get her a McDonald’s hamburger. Happy birthday, Kamala,” he riffed. 
“That’s a strange place to do a news conference,” he told his newfound co-workers after wrapping up that presser. 
During another exchange with the press, Trump revealed that he recently had a call with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, but he was scant on details. 
“They’re certainly in a better position and fortunately they didn’t listen to Biden and Harris,” he said.
Underpinning some of those jabs is the fact that vice presidential hopeful Tim Walz was found to have embellished some details of his biography.
The 45th president has long been a fan of McDonald’s. Famously during the government shutdown that spilled into 2019, he ordered over 300 burgers in addition to fries and other menu items from McDonald’s to honor the Clemson Tigers for winning the national college football championship that year because the White House chefs were on furlough.
Trump said he personally paid for the meal, which was arrayed on silver platters in the State Dining Room.
Throughout his time in the political limelight, Trump has been seen smiling next to various orders from McDonald’s that he’s received from aides and occasionally gotten in person as well.
Last year, for instance, he stopped by a McDonald’s in East Palestine, Ohio, in the aftermath of a toxic chemical spill that unleashed harmful substances into the nearby environment and created a health crisis.
Donald Trump Jr. previously joked, “I think my father knows the McDonald’s menu much better than Kamala Harris ever did.”
When asked about his favorite menu item to order at McDonald’s, the 45th president replied, “I like it all, I like every ounce of it — everything.”
He also mocked Harris for complaining that the fry station was too hot.
“She said it was so hot. It was such a tough job,” Trump ribbed. 
The McDonald’s campaign stop comes amid a pitched battle to win Pennsylvania, which has the largest quantity of Electoral College votes among the seven major battleground states.
“I’m going to McDonald’s to work the french fry,” Trump previewed during a rally in Latrobe, Pa., Saturday. “I think I’m doing it tomorrow, and I think it’s in a place in Pennsylvania, and I’m going to stand over that french fry.”
Later in the day Sunday, Trump planned a rally in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and was slated to attend the Pittsburgh Steelers’ game against the New York Jets in Acrisure Stadium.