Biden Pardons 2 Turkeys in Annual White House Tradition
WASHINGTON—President Joe Biden pardoned two turkeys on Monday in a ceremony marking his final Thanksgiving tradition at the White House.

“This event marks the official start of the holiday season here in Washington. It’s also my last time to speak here as your president during this season and give thanks and gratitude,” Biden told guests during the ceremony.

“So let me say to you: It’s been the honor of my life; I’m forever grateful.”
Biden announced this year’s lucky turkey contenders from Minnesota: Peach and Blossom.

“Two turkeys are named after the Delaware state flower, the peach blossom. And by the way, Delaware has a long history of growing peaches. In fact, the peach pie in our state is one of my favorites,” Biden said.

“And peach blossom flower also symbolizes resilience, which is, quite frankly, fitting for today,” Biden told the crowd.
Peach weighs around 41 pounds, loves to eat hotdish topped with tater tots, and lives by the motto “keep calm and gobble on,” while Blossom weighs 40 pounds and lives by the motto, “no fowl play, just Minnesota nice,” Biden said.

The White House tradition began when a turkey was presented to President Harry Truman in 1947.
President George H.W. Bush was the first to formalize the tradition of granting a turkey pardon. On Nov. 14, 1989, he declared that that year’s bird had “been granted a presidential pardon as of right now.” He sent the turkey to Herndon, Virginia’s Frying Pan Park, and thus began a tradition.
Biden kicked off the ceremony with a joke about the large crowd gathered on the South Lawn of the White House.

“They tell me there are 2,500 people here today—looking for a pardon,” Biden said with a laugh.
After the ceremony, Biden and First Lady Jill Biden will travel to the U.S. Coast Guard Sector New York to join “a Friendsgiving dinner” with the service members and military families.

“The U.S. Coast Guard Sector New York is home to over 500 active-duty members and their family members and represents the largest military presence in New York City,” White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre told reporters on Nov. 21.

“During their visit, the president and the first lady will thank service members and their families and help serve Thanksgiving meal.”
