Biden pardons turkeys — not named Hunter — at unusually somber White House Thanksgiving event
Retiring President Biden granted a presidential reprieve Monday to poultry named Peach and Blossom at the traditional pre-Thanksgiving turkey pardon — as hard-partying two-time felon Hunter Biden, who has been at the White House since last week, is still waiting to learn if his dad will give him clemency.

Biden, 82, was noticeably light on jokes this year at the usually light-hearted event, with his script including virtually no puns or humorous musings about current events — aside from urging his large crowd of spectators on the lawn to “keep calm and gobble on.”
“Let me close on a more serious note,” Biden said. “This event marks the official start of the holiday season here in Washington. It’s also my last time to speak here as your president during this season and give thanks and gratitude. So let me say to you, it’s been the honor of my life. I’m forever grateful.”

The meat industry event generally grinds the gears of people seeking actual clemency — including the more than 2,000 estimated federal marijuana inmates, who are still waiting for the president to fulfill a 2019 campaign pledge to release them, as the days to do so dwindle.
“They tell me there’s 2,500 people here today, looking for a pardon,” the president had joked when greeting the attendees, without any reference to his promised clemency.

It’s unclear if Hunter, 54, who alongside first brother James Biden earned millions from shady patrons in China and Ukraine while introducing clients to his powerful relative, was in attendance.

The first son’s own son, Beau Jr., however, took his grandfather’s hand as he re-entered the White House.
Hunter is awaiting sentencing after being convicted of three drug-related gun felonies in June and pleading guilty to tax fraud in September — while his involvement of his father in foreign business relationships during the elder Biden’s vice presidency spurred a separate House impeachment inquiry that accused him of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress but was never put to a vote.

The president and his spokespeople have repeatedly ruled out pardoning Hunter, but it’s possible he will still do so, or use his clemency powers to commute the possible penalties.

President-elect Donald Trump said last month he’s also opening to pardoning Hunter to turn the page on the political saga.
“I wouldn’t take it off the books,” said Trump, who previously said he didn’t push to charge Hillary Clinton with private-server-related crimes during his first term because it would have been bad for the country.

“There’s no question about it, he’s been a bad boy. All you had to do is see the laptop from hell. But I happen to think it’s very bad for our country,” Trump added.
Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden will travel later Monday to Staten Island for a “Friendsgiving” event with the Coast Guard — before the extended family heads to Nantucket island on Tuesday for vacation, which for the past three years has been at billionaire businessman David Rubenstein’s compound.
